Release notes and migration guide ready to merge (#2370)
tinymce/tinymce-docs: modules/ROOT/pages/6.0-release-notes-core-changes.adoc

> = TinyMCE 6.0: the core changes

Reviewer: Also, re: the title here - it matches the other release notes pages, but when included in the Migration Guide it doesn't match the other headings. Unsure what we could do here?

> = TinyMCE 6.0: the core changes

Reviewer: My comment above was discussed in the call and I believe @ltrouton is handling it

> = TinyMCE 6.0: the core changes

Reviewer: Deferring xrefs to future PR to make things easier, and other things are being dealt with.

:navtitle: Core changes
:description: The core changes for TinyMCE 6.0
:keywords: releasenotes, bugfixes, defaults

This section documents the three core changes made to {productname} 6.0.

This section also includes four tables that set out the:

> * renamed APIs, Commands, Plugins, Options, and UI &amp; UX elements

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* renamed APIs, Commands, Plugins, Options, and UI & UX elements
```
This isn't HTML or Markdown so we don't need to use HTML entities here.

* values changed in a default {productname} 6.0 instance.
* previously deprecated and now removed items.
* never documented, and consequently never supported, items that have now been removed.

> 

Reviewer: ![doc01](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/4361382/161876106-1d5b7c39-1980-4906-8996-050ced8f4caa.png)
This is how it's rendering at the moment, for reference

* xref:core-changes[Core changes]
* xref:things-we-renamed[Things we renamed]
* xref:default-value-changes[Default value changes]
* xref:previously-deprecated-items-now-removed[Previously deprecated items now removed]
* xref:previously-undocumented-items-removed-without-prior-deprecation[Previously undocumented items removed without prior deprecation]

// tag::core-changes[]
[[core-changes]]
== Core changes

> . {productname} 6.0 now requires a browser capable of running https://tc39.es/ecma262/2020/[ECMAScript 2020] (ES2020).

Reviewer 2: We probably don't want this specifically advertised... our support is the last 2 major versions of supported browsers and the latest LTS release (e.g. Firefox ESR). That's as much as we support, so realistically it's actually higher than ES2020.

See the note at the bottom of https://www.tiny.cloud/docs/general-configuration-guide/system-requirements/#supportedwebbrowsers.

+
NOTE: In particular, this means {productname} 6.0 does not support Internet Explorer 11.
+

> . No Premium Plugins being released with {productname} 6.0 are backwards compatible with earlier versions of {productname}.

Reviewer 2: This seems like a double negative and I can't wrap my head around it? I think we need to remove `No`, so something like this maybe?
```suggestion
. Premium Plugins released with {productname} 6.0 are not backwards compatible with earlier versions of {productname}.
```

. {productname} 6.0 is now available in three further language:
* Hindi (hi);
* Malay (ms); and
* Vietnamese (vi)

// end::core-changes[]

// tag::things-we-renamed[]

> [[things-we-renamed]]

Reviewer: Not priority

== Things we renamed

[cols="1,1,1,1,1"]
|===

> | Old name                            | New name                         | Element                             | Notes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | for more information

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Old name                            | New name                         | Element                             | Notes                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         | For more information
```
Sentence case? Did also wonder if "More information" would render a bit nicer?

Author: > For more information

This has been corrected.

> Did also wonder if “More information” would render a bit nicer?
> 
> [and] if “see” should be capitalised?

Good questions.

The extant text encourages reading the header as an initial clause with each entry in a cell below as a followng dependent clause.

In effect, a series of complete sentences:

_For more information see [thing to see]._

Which is also why _see_ is not capitalised: each time, the word is the beginning of a dependent clause, not the beginning of a new sentence.

If this isn’t the reading that occurs to you, your point about ‘rendering’ above may be the key. If the headers aren’t cleanly readable (because of forced line-breaks, say), the reading intent may be lost.

Reviewer: That makes sense. I'm happy with it as it is now

> | `blockformats`                      | `blocks`                         | Menu item                           | No behavioural changes.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |

Reviewer 2: We need to use US english in the docs, so I believe this should be this instead:
```suggestion
| `blockformats`                      | `blocks`                         | Menu item                           | No behavioral changes.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
```

> | `formatselect`                      | `blocks`                         | Toolbar item                        | No behavioural changes.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `formatselect`                      | `blocks`                         | Toolbar item                        | No behavioral changes.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
```

> | `imagetools`                        | `editimage`                      | Plugin                              | NB: _Image Tools_ is now _Edit Image_, a https://tiny.cloud/tinymce/features/#productivity[Premium plugin].                                                                                                                                                                                                   | see xref:new-and-improved-plugins-imagetools[EditImage]

Reviewer 2: I mentioned this elsewhere, but just to make sure it's not missed the plugin name should be `Enhanced Image Editing` (it was changed unexpectedly late last week).

Reviewer 2: Also we should be using the attributes defined globally for these URLs so that it can easily be changed if the URL changes later. e.g.:
```suggestion
| `imagetools`                        | `editimage`                      | Plugin                              | NB: _Image Tools_ is now _Enhanced Image Editing_, a link:{plugindirectory}#productivity[Premium plugin].                                                                                                                                                                                                   | see xref:new-and-improved-plugins-imagetools[Enhanced Image Editing]
```

Reviewer: Did also wonder if "see" should be capitalised?

| `imagetools_api_key`                | `editimage_api_key`              | Option                              | NB: _Image Tools_ is now _Edit Image_, a https://tiny.cloud/tinymce/features/#productivity[Premium plugin].                                                                                                                                                                                                   | see xref:new-and-improved-plugins-imagetools[EditImage]

| `images_upload_timeout`             | `editimage_upload_timeout`       | Option                              | NB: _Image Tools_ is now _Edit Image_, a https://tiny.cloud/tinymce/features/#productivity[Premium plugin].                                                                                                                                                                                                   | see xref:new-and-improved-plugins-imagetools[EditImage]

> | `editimage_proxy`                   | `export_image_proxy_service_url` | Option                              | Renamed for easier configuration when used with https://tiny.cloud/docs/enterprise/server/[Tiny services].                                                                                                                                                                                                    |

Reviewer: I don't know what I'm talking about here, but this seems odd to me? @lnewson @TheSpyder Could one of you please confirm if this line is correct?

Reviewer 2: Yeah, it was renamed it was a new option that makes it easier to work with the backend services we provide. I'd suggest having a look at the `/tinymce/6/editimage/#editimage_proxy_service_url` page/option which might provide more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `imagetools_proxy`             | `editimage_proxy`       | Option                              | NB: _Image Tools_ is now _Edit Image_, a https://tiny.cloud/tinymce/features/#productivity[Premium plugin].                                                                                                                                                                                                   | see xref:new-and-improved-plugins-imagetools[EditImage]
```

| `toc_depth`                         | `tableofcontents_depth`          | Option                              | NB: _Table of Contents_ is now a https://tiny.cloud/tinymce/features/#productivity[Premium plugin].                                                                                                                                                                                                           | see xref:new-and-improved-plugins-table-of-contents[Table of Contents]

| `toc_header`                        | `tableofcontents_header`         | Option                              | NB: _Table of Contents_ is now a https://tiny.cloud/tinymce/features/#productivity[Premium plugin].                                                                                                                                                                                                           | see xref:new-and-improved-plugins-table-of-contents[Table of Contents]
|===

> - *Commands* are what is passed via the `theeditor.execCommand()` API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- *Commands* are what is passed via the `editor.execCommand()` API.
```
I think this is more commonly how we describe this

+

> Where a Command name has change, calls to `theeditor.execCommand()` API must be changed to match the new name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Where a Command name has change, calls to `editor.execCommand()` API must be changed to match the new name.
```

= TinyMCE 6.0: the core changes
:navtitle: Core changes
:description: The core changes for TinyMCE 6.0
:keywords: releasenotes, bugfixes, defaults

This section documents the three core changes made to {productname} 6.0.

This section also includes four tables that set out the:

* renamed APIs, Commands, Plugins, Options, and UI & UX elements
* values changed in a default {productname} 6.0 instance.
* previously deprecated and now removed items.
* never documented, and consequently never supported, items that have now been removed.

* xref:core-changes[Core changes]
* xref:things-we-renamed[Things we renamed]
* xref:default-value-changes[Default value changes]
* xref:previously-deprecated-items-now-removed[Previously deprecated items now removed]
* xref:previously-undocumented-items-removed-without-prior-deprecation[Previously undocumented items removed without prior deprecation]

// tag::core-changes[]
[[core-changes]]
== Core changes

> . Browsers supported by {productname] 6.0 have changed. {productname] 6.0 supports the current and previous major versions of Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, Microsoft Edge, and Apple Safari. {productname] 6.0 also supports the current Long Term Release of each of the above browsers (eg, Mozilla Firefox ESR and Google Chrome ESR).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Browsers supported by {productname} 6.0 have changed. {productname} 6.0 supports the current and previous major versions of Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, Microsoft Edge, and Apple Safari. {productname] 6.0 also supports the current Long Term Release of each of the above browsers (eg, Mozilla Firefox ESR and Google Chrome ESR).
```

| `imagetools_cors_hosts`             | `editimage_cors_hosts`           | Option                              | NB: _Image Tools_ is now _Edit Image_, a https://tiny.cloud/tinymce/features/#productivity[Premium plugin].                                                                                                                                                                                                   | see xref:new-and-improved-plugins-imagetools[EditImage]

| `imagetools_credentials_hosts`      | `editimage_credentials_hosts`    | Option                              | NB: _Image Tools_ is now _Edit Image_, a https://tiny.cloud/tinymce/features/#productivity[Premium plugin].                                                                                                                                                                                                   | see xref:new-and-improved-plugins-imagetools[EditImage]

> | `imagetools_fetch_image`            | `editimage_fetch_iamge`          | Option                              | NB: _Image Tools_ is now _Edit Image_, a https://tiny.cloud/tinymce/features/#productivity[Premium plugin].                                                                                                                                                                                                   | see xref:new-and-improved-plugins-imagetools[EditImage]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `imagetools_fetch_image`            | `editimage_fetch_image`          | Option                              | NB: _Image Tools_ is now _Edit Image_, a https://tiny.cloud/tinymce/features/#productivity[Premium plugin].                                                                                                                                                                                                   | see xref:new-and-improved-plugins-imagetools[EditImage]
```

| `images_upload_timeout`             | `editimage_upload_timeout`       | Option                              | NB: _Image Tools_ is now _Edit Image_, a https://tiny.cloud/tinymce/features/#productivity[Premium plugin].                                                                                                                                                                                                   | see xref:new-and-improved-plugins-imagetools[EditImage]

| `editimage_proxy`                   | `export_image_proxy_service_url` | Option                              | Renamed for easier configuration when used with https://tiny.cloud/docs/enterprise/server/[Tiny services].                                                                                                                                                                                                    |

> | `fire()`                            | `dispatch()`                     | Function                            | The `fire()` function in `tinymce.Editor`, `tinymce.dom.EventUtils`, `tinymce.dom.DOMUtils`, `tinymce.util.Observable` and `tinymce.util.EventDispatcher` has been renamed to `dispatch()`. `fire` has been aliased to `dispatch` but has also been marked as _deprecated_.                                   |

Reviewer 2: Also reading down further, it is called an `API` later on, not a `Function` (see the last table).

> | `fire()`                            | `dispatch()`                     | Function                            | The `fire()` function in `tinymce.Editor`, `tinymce.dom.EventUtils`, `tinymce.dom.DOMUtils`, `tinymce.util.Observable` and `tinymce.util.EventDispatcher` has been renamed to `dispatch()`. `fire` has been aliased to `dispatch` but has also been marked as _deprecated_.                                   |

Author: Commit message: Things we renamed table: `fire()` is an API, not a Function. Also tiny edits to Notes column to reflect this.

| `getWhiteSpaceElements()`           | `getWhitespaceElements()`        | Function                            | This function is part of the `Schema` API. It was renamed as part of a general renaming that treats _Whitespace_ as a single word. The behavior of the function has not changed.                                                                                                                             |

| `getShortEndedElements`             | `getVoidElements`                | API                                 | `special` and `void` are hard-coded elements defined by the HTML parsing specification. They can not be changed at run-time. The previous API name did not make it clear it was these, hard-coded, elements being called.                                                                                     |

> | `content`                           | `html`                           | Command                             | This `mceInsertClipboardContent` argument was renamed to better reflect what data is passed. NB: The `content` argument can no longer be used with `mceInsertClipboardContent`. If `content` is used, no data is passed.                                                                                      | see xref:changed-plugins-paste[Paste]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `content`                           | `html`                           | Command                             | This `mceInsertClipboardContent` argument was renamed to better reflect what data is passed. NB: The `content` argument can no longer be used with `mceInsertClipboardContent`.                                                                                     | see xref:changed-plugins-paste[Paste]
```

| `linheight_formats`                 | `line_height_formats`            | Option                              | No behavioral changes.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |

> | `default_link_target`               | `link_default_target`            |                                     | Changed for consistency with other `link` and `autolink` options. Their functionality, and the values they can take remain unchanged. This change applies to both `link` and `autolink` plugins.                                                                                                              |

Reviewer 2: Is `their` and `they` correct here? It's a single option, but this makes it sound like it's multiple options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `default_link_target`               | `link_default_target`            |                                     | Changed for consistency with other `link` and `autolink` options. The functionality, and the values the option can take remain unchanged. This change applies to both `link` and `autolink` plugins.                                                                                                              |
```

| `rel_list`                          | `link_rel_list`                  |                                     | Changed for consistency with other options. The functionality, and the values this option can take remain unchanged.                                                                                                                                                                                          |

| `target_list`                       | `link_target_list`               |                                     | Changed for consistency with other options. The functionality, and the values this option can take remain unchanged.                                                                                                                                                                                          |

> | `mceInsertTable`                    | `mceInsertTableDialog`           |                                     | Use `mceInsertTableDialog` to open the _Insert Table_ dialog box. NB: `mceInsertTable` (with appropriate arguments) still works to insert a table directly into an existing document. `mceInsertTable` can no longer be used to invoke the _Table_ dialog box, however.                                       | see xref:changed-plugins-table[Table]

Reviewer 2: We don't normally refer to it as `dialog box` so maybe drop the `box` part?
```suggestion
| `mceInsertTable`                    | `mceInsertTableDialog`           |                                     | Use `mceInsertTableDialog` to open the _Insert Table_ dialog. NB: `mceInsertTable` (with appropriate arguments) still works to insert a table directly into an existing document. `mceInsertTable` can no longer be used to invoke the _Table_ dialog, however.                                       | see xref:changed-plugins-table[Table]
```

| `formats`                           | `styles`                         | Menu item                           | No behavioral changes.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |

| `textpattern_patterns`              | `text_patterns`                  | Option                              | After upgrading, rename the options in your {productname} init configuration to match the new name. Also, remove `textpattern` from your plugins list. This name-change is consequent to `textpattern` being changed from a Plugin to being part of the {productname} Core.                                   | see xref:changed-plugins-textpattern[Textpattern]

> | `tinymce.Env.browser.isChrome`      | `tinymce.Env.browser.isChromium` | API                                 | Updated so the `Sand` and `Env` APIs better reflect what they are checking for. `isChrome` implies they are checking for _Google Chrome_. They are actually checking for any Chromium-based browser (eg Chromium, Google Chrome, or Chrome Edge) so `isChromium` more accurately reflects what is being done. |

Reviewer 2: `Sand` is an internal only library so this might confuse any customers who read this?
```suggestion
| `tinymce.Env.browser.isChrome`      | `tinymce.Env.browser.isChromium` | API                                 | Updated so the `Env` API better reflects what is being checked. `isChrome` implies it was checking for _Google Chrome_. Instead, it was actually checking for any Chromium-based browser (e.g. Chromium, Google Chrome, or Chrome Edge) so `isChromium` more accurately reflects what is being done. |
```

> | `tinymce.Env.os.isOSX`              | `tinymce.Env.os.isMacOS`         | API                                 | Updated so the `Sand` and `Env` APIs now use the current name of Apple’s desktop operating system when checking to see if a device’s OS is, in fact, macOS.                                                                                                                                                   |

Reviewer 2: Same issue here with `Sand`, as it's an internal only library we probably shouldn't be mentioning it here.

| `toc_header`                        | `tableofcontents_header`         | Option                              | NB: _Table of Contents_ is now a https://tiny.cloud/tinymce/features/#productivity[Premium plugin].                                                                                                                                                                                                           | see xref:new-and-improved-plugins-table-of-contents[Table of Contents]
|===

- *Commands* are what is passed via the `theeditor.execCommand()` API.
+
Where a Command name has change, calls to `theeditor.execCommand()` API must be changed to match the new name.
+
- Configuration *Options* are what is passed when initialising the {productname} editor via `tinymce.init`.
+
Where an Option name has changed, configurations using that option must be changed to match the new name.
+

> - *Menu items* and *Toolbar items* are *Options* from `tinymce.init` for UI and UX features, such as the {productname} Menu, Toolbar and Contextual Menu.

Reviewer 2: Should these link to the relevant docs pages for these options?

Reviewer: Haven't looked at this on the branch build to get context but: I've seen a few places we should possibly do that. I'm thinking maybe come back to it later? Seems like if we add some, we might find others, and it'll snowball.

Reviewer: Deferring

// end::things-we-renamed[]

// tag::default-value-changes[]
[[default-value-changes]]
== Default value changes

[cols="1,1,1,1,1"]
|===
| Element                       | Old value                   | New value | Notes                                                                  | For more information

| assignment operator character | `:`                         | `~`       | Changed in the `valid_elements` and `extended_valid_elements` schemata |

> | `config.height`               | `200px`                     | `400px`   | Changed to improve user experience.                                    | see xref:ui-and-ux-elements-and-components-editor-text-entry-height[Height]

Reviewer 2: This should just be `height` instead and the defaults aren't quite correct either, as it needs to be either a number or a string.=.
```suggestion
| `height`               | `'200px'`                     | `'400px'`   | Changed to improve user experience.                                    | see xref:ui-and-ux-elements-and-components-editor-text-entry-height[Height]
```

> | `element_format`              | _no default value assigned_ | `html`    | Changed as part of modernising {productname}’s default behavior.      |
> 
> | `link_default_protocol`       | `http`                      | `https`   | Changed as part of modernising {productname}’s default behavior.      |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `element_format`              | _no default value assigned_ | `'html'`    | Changed as part of modernising {productname}’s default behavior.      |

| `link_default_protocol`       | `'http'`                      | `'https'`   | Changed as part of modernising {productname}’s default behavior.      |
```
These options requires a string, so we probably need to make it look like a string.

> | {productname} `schema`        | _no default value assigned_ | `html5`   | Changed as part of modernising {productname}’s default behavior.      |

Reviewer 2: TinyMCE schema seems odd here, as this whole document is about TinyMCE? I think we should just drop that. This is also a value that's a string.
```suggestion
| `schema`        | _no default value assigned_ | `'html5'`   | Changed as part of modernising {productname}’s default behavior.      |
```

| `table_style_by_css`          | `false`                     | `true`    | Changed as part of modernising {productname}’s default behavior.      | see xref:changed-plugins-table[Table]

| `table_use_colgroups`         | `false`                     | `true`    | Changed as part of modernising {productname}’s default behavior.      | see xref:changed-plugins-table[Table]
|===

// end::default-value-changes[]

// tag::previously-deprecated-items-now-removed[]
[[previously-deprecated-items-now-removed]]
== Previously deprecated items now removed

The following elements were previously deprecated and have, with this release, been removed entirely from {productname}.

[cols="1,1,1"]
|===
| Item                                  | Element       | Notes

> | `$`                                   | API           | `$` was a shorthand function of `DomQuery` and `Sizzle`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `$`                                   | API           | `$` was a shorthand alias for `DomQuery`.
```

| `addComponents`                       | API           | From `AddOnManager`.

| `autoresize_on_init`                  | Option        |

| `block_elements`                      | Schema option |

| `boolean_attributes`                  | Schema option |

| `Class`                               | API           |

| `clearInterval`                       | API           | From `Delay`.

| `clearTimeout`                        | API           | From `Delay`.

| `Color`                               | API           |

| `content_editable_state`              | Option        |

| `debounce`                            | API           | From `Delay`.

| `dependencies`                        | API           | From `AddOnManager`.

| `DomQuery`                            | API           |

| `editor_deselector`                   | Option        | From `EditorManager`.

| `editors`                             | Property      | From `EditorManager`.

| `editor_selector`                     | Option        | From `EditorManager`.

| `elements`                            | Option        | From `EditorManager`.

> | `execCallback`                        | API           |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `execCallback`                        | API           | From `Editor`.
```
I guess this should be here for consistency?

| `file_browser_callback_types`         | Option        |

| `filepicker_validator_handler`        | Option        | Superseded by `file_picker_validator_handler`.

| `force_hex_style_colors`              | Option        |

| `force_p_newlines`                    | Option        | Superseded by `forced_root_block`.

| `forced_root_black: false`            | Option        | `forced_root_black` must be a non-empty string and cannot take a value of `false`.

| `gecko_spellcheck`                    | Option        | Replaced by `browser_spellcheck`.

| `images_dataimg_filter`               | Option        |

| `JSON`                                | API           |

| `JSONP`                               | API           |

| `JSONRequest`                         | API           |

| `mode`                                | Option        | From `EditorManager`.

> | `move_caret_before_on_enter_elements` | Schema option |

Reviewer 2: This and the other schema options we undocumented previously. Are we sure we want to call attention to them here? @metricjs would be keen to get your thoughts on this.

At the very least they should probably be in the section/table at the bottom instead.

Reviewer: Good point. I think the table at the end of this page makes sense

| `non_empty_elements`                  | Schema option |

| `padd_empty_with_br`                  | Option        |

| `requestAnimationFrame`               | API           | From `Delay`.

| `self_closing_elements`               | Schema option |

| `setIconStroke`                       | API           |

| `setInterval`                         | API           | From `Delay`.

| `setMode`                             | API           |

| `setTimeout`                          | API           | From `Delay`.

| `short_ended_elements`                | Schema option |

| `Sizzle`                              | API           |

| `special`                             | Schema option |

| `text_block_elements`                 | Schema option |

| `text_inline_elements`                | Schema option |

| `throttle`                            | API           | From `Delay`.

> | `toolbar_drawer`                      | Option        | Superseded by `toolbar_mode`.

Reviewer 2: Should this and other superseded options be linked to the relevant docs?

Reviewer: Probably. Could we come back to it later?

Reviewer: Deferring

:keywords: releasenotes, bugfixes, defaults

This section documents the three core changes made to {productname} 6.0.

This section also includes four tables that set out the:

* renamed APIs, Commands, Plugins, Options, and UI & UX elements
* values changed in a default {productname} 6.0 instance.
* previously deprecated and now removed items.
* never documented, and consequently never supported, items that have now been removed.

* xref:core-changes[Core changes]
* xref:things-we-renamed[Things we renamed]
* xref:default-value-changes[Default value changes]
* xref:previously-deprecated-items-now-removed[Previously deprecated items now removed]
* xref:previously-undocumented-items-removed-without-prior-deprecation[Previously undocumented items removed without prior deprecation]

// tag::core-changes[]
[[core-changes]]
== Core changes

. Browsers supported by {productname} 6.0 have changed. {productname} 6.0 supports the current and previous major versions of Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, Microsoft Edge, and Apple Safari. {productname] 6.0 also supports the current Long Term Release of each of the above browsers (eg, Mozilla Firefox ESR and Google Chrome ESR).

+

> NOTE: In particular, this means {productname} 6.0 does not support Microsoft Internet Explorer 11.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
NOTE: In particular, this means {productname} 6.0 does not support Microsoft Internet Explorer.
```
